There is evidence that frogs have roamed the Earth for more than 200 million years, at least as long as the dinosaurs.
The world's largest frog is the goliath frog of West Africa— it can grow to 15 inches and weigh up to 7 pounds.
One of the smallest is the Cuban tree toad, which grows to half an inch long.
There are over 6,000 species of frogs worldwide. Scientists continue to search for new ones.
I turn Discord users into frogs. You're next.
Launched by their long legs, many frogs can leap more than 20 times their body length.
The Costa Rican flying tree frog soars from branch to branch with the help of its feet. Webbing between the frog's fingers and toes extends out, helping the frog glide.
The Australian water-holding frog is a desert dweller that can wait up to seven years for rain. It burrows underground and surrounds itself in a transparent cocoon made of its own shed skin.
The marsupial frog keeps her eggs in a pouch like a kangaroo. When the eggs hatch into tadpoles, she opens the pouch with her toes and spills them into the water.
One gram of the toxin produced by the skin of the golden poison dart frog could kill 100,000 people.
A frog completely sheds its skin about once a week. After it pulls off the old, dead skin, the frog usually eats it.
When Darwin’s frog tadpoles hatch, a male frog swallows the tadpoles. He keeps the tiny amphibians in his vocal sac for about 60 days to allow them to grow. He then proceeds to cough up tiny, fully formed frogs.
When a frog swallows its prey, it blinks, which pushes its eyeballs down on top of the mouth to help push the food down its throat. It can't open its eyes when eating.
A group of frogs is called an army.
There is a frog in Indonesia that has no lungs – it breathes entirely through its skin.
Most frogs have teeth, although usually only on their upper jaw. The teeth are used to hold prey in place until the frog can swallow it.
The red-eyed tree frog lays it eggs on the underside of leaves that hang over water. When the eggs hatch, the tadpoles fall into the water below.
There are over 6,000 species of frogs!
Frogs are found on every continent except Antarctica.
Every year that a frog goes into hibernation, a new layer of bone forms. You can count these rings to find out the frog's age.
Croaking is used by male frogs as a way to attract females.
Bullfrogs can amplify their croaks to up to a mile away!
Frogs don’t drink water with their mouths; they “drink” by absorbing water through their skin.
A frog's eyes are positioned to give it almost a 180 degree field of view.
Each frog species has its own special call.
All toads are frogs, but not all frogs are toads.
Frogs are mostly freshwater amphibians.
Frogs really don't have much of a neck.
Poisonous frogs are usually brightly-colored to warn predators. Some non-poisonous frogs mimic those colors to fool predators themselves.
Frogs and toads have a moist and permeable skin layer covered with mucous glands.
Most species eat insects, spiders, worms, and slugs. However, some larger species are able to eat larger prey like mice, birds, and small reptiles.
Frogs thrive in a large number of environments from tropical forests to frozen tundras to deserts.
Tadpoles are also known as pollywogs.
The process of a tadpole becoming a frog is known as metamorphosis: just like with butterflies!
Similar to fish, young frogs will swim together in schools.
Female frogs are hard to find as they are silent most of the time.
The life spans of frogs in the wild are widely unknown, but likely range from one day to 30 years.
The largest threat to frog species is habitat loss related to human activity and human expansion.
Many species of frogs, nearly 900 species, are listed as “Endangered” by IUCN’s Red List. Over 500 species of frogs are listed as “Critically Endangered.”
The study of frogs is called Herpetology.
The liver of a frog contains 3 lobes which help secrete its digestive juices called bile.
Frogs sleep with eyes open.
The common frog is capable of crying.
Many frogs will bite you if they feel threatened or unsafe.
An ear of the frog is called tympanum and it is located just behind the eye.
There are two frogs in the world that have tails, the coastal tailed frog and the mountain tailed frog.
Frogs have 3 distinctive cavities in their bodies that host their organs.
A group of toads is called a "knot".
Frogs have great night vision.
Frogs can hold their breath for an average of 4 to 7 hours at a time.
The Ornate Horned is the most aggressive frog.
Frog legs are eaten by humans in many parts of the world.
None of these frog facts are fact-checked.
There is a type of poison dart frog called the blue-jeans frog.
The tongue of a frog is typically ⅓ of the length of its body.
Unlike humans, a frog's tongue is not attached to the back of its mouth. Instead, it is attached to the front, enabling the frog to stick its tongue out much further.
The eyes and nose of a frog are on top of its head so it can breathe and see when most of its body is under the water.
Since ancient times, the frog has been considered lucky in Scotland. This is why stone frogs are commonly kept in gardens and often given as housewarming gifts.
These facts aren't actually limitless. Sooner or later, you will get repeats.
Life may look hard right now, but keep your chin up and just keep hopping along.